We're gonna go piece by piece and
we're going to migrate our
application to TypeScript.
And it's kinda cool, as long as everything
says JS, it'll leave it in JS mode,
which it won't do any
necessarily checking on it.
But for example,
we're gonna go just start with modal.
If you rename this to modal.tsx and
the x is actually important here because
TypeScript won't check React typings or
it won't understand it well,
unless we put the x there.
So the x is actually required this time,
okay?
So as soon as I change this to x, now,
it's giving me a bunch of errors.
It's like I don't know what this is,
I don't know what this is,
I don't know what this is.
And then we get to, basically play
whack a mole with type errors.
Okay, so first thing up here inside of
this, now we can import types as well.
So we're gonna import
a FunctionComponent type and
we're going to import
a MutableRefObject type Okay?
Good so far.
Now, we're gonna say modal ur,
a FunctionComponent, Which is pretty cool.
So if you contrast that with our class
components, it knows that it's a class
component because you're telling it,
it extends type component or
extends class component,
which knows is a type of component.
Here, it doesn't know modal
from any other functions.
So we have to explicitly tell it,
this is a FunctionComponent.
That's what this colon means, the colon
means I'm about to give you some more
typing information, I'm about to narrow
the typing down to specifically this.
So now if you mouse over, like modal down
here, it's gonna be like, I know what this
is, this is a FunctionComponent
that accepts no properties.
Yeah, children just comes with everything,
so that's fine.
Okay?
Here, elRef, it does know that
it's a MutableRefObject, but
it doesn't know what type it is.
So we kinda have to tell it what
kind of MutableRefObject it can be.
So we're gonna say this is a ref object,
MutableRefObject.
Then we have to give it some parameters.
So the way you give parameters
to this MutableRefObject is
with these angle brackets.
Okay, and then inside of there,
we're gonna say
that this useRef is either going
to contain a HTMLDivElement,
HTMLDivElement, or it'll be null.
Okay, it can only be one
of those two things.
So now later, I mean, just to show
you if I say elRef.current = 5,
it's gonna say, no, it can't do that.
You told me that it can't do that,
I'm not gonna let you do that, right?
You told me it can be either a div or
nothing and it cannot be a number.
Whereas if I don't do that,
it won't know, right?
It won't know what it's supposed to be.
Okay, and now everywhere,
I have strong guarantees that this is
either empty or it contains a div.
Okay?
So that's good so far.
Now, we have this problem here,
it's gonna say, hey,
you told me that modal route might
be null, so what about that?
You can't call a pen child on
something that's null, right?
You can call and some of it's
an HTML element, but I can't let you
call it without you assuring me
specifically that this is not null.
So you get into this kinda like
defensive programming stance.
Now, I'm picturing like old martial art
movies, it's very different from that.
Modal, if no modalRoot or
no elRef.current.
So we're just gonna do
a quick null check here.
We're just gonna say return.
Now, you might say like, well,
it was never going to be null,
our program was fine before.
But we have to kinda like
assure the type systems,
this is definitely not gonna crash,
cuz the type system doesn't know, right?
All right, so there's that, that's fine.
And then we have to do the same
check here in the cleanup function.
So if elRef.current, so if it does exist,
then just go ahead and
remove that from the DOM.
And now this file is fully typed.
Now, I will say that there
are many ways to skin a cat in
this particular situation.
There's a bunch of ways you could
have handled the MutableRefObject,
there's other ways you could have
handled the functionComponent.
So there's not necessarily one correct
way, there probably is like one best way,
but I'm just showing you
the way that I would do it.
Okay, cool, so,
The nice thing is that we
only have to type the things
that TypeScript cannot figure out itself.
So for example, we have modalRoot here.
This is always gonna be an HTML element or
null, and
it knows that because that's what you get
back from document.getElementById, right?
It just knows that that's
what returns it said.
I never had to tell, this is what
modalRoot is, it's just like, okay,
I got it, right?
So anytime we're like,
it can pull that information out,
we don't have to go back and
tell it later, you are this, right?
For example, if this was like let, and
I tried to say that modalRoot is now = 5,
it's gonna get upset.
It's like, no,
I have a type for this before.
If you want this to be true, then you
have to go and tell me beforehand, hey,
this could also be a number.
In other words,
TypeScript is pretty smart.
You just have to kinda fill in the blanks
where it could not be able to figure out
what that is supposed to be.
>> How can I figure out what type
of object I could need if I don't
know MutableRefObject or
any other React type?
Is there a trick for that?
>> Yeah, it's always a bit of
snooping around an investigation,
that's a good question.
You wanna know how I found it out,
is I just moused over what useRef is.
It's like okay,
what does use ref give back?
It gives back a React mutable object,
or MutableRefObject, right?
So a lot of times, you can just mouse
over the function that you're calling,
it'll tell you, I expect to give you this.
So for example, getElementById,
it gives you back,
this is either gonna be an HTML element or
it's gonna be null.
You'll notice that I put
HTMLDivElement up here.
The reason why I did that, cuz I knew
down here is gonna give you this.
And I just specifically typed into
a div because I knew down here I was
creating a div.
So elRef.current, this is definitely
gonna be a HTMLDivElement.
So that's the easiest way.
I'm trying to think if
there's anything additional,
I think that that's almost like 99% of
the sleuthing that I do is that way.
The one thing to know is, with React
is basically everything ends up,
that it returns being a ReactNode,
yes, you have the React.ReactNode.
That's like the most important type
in JavaScript, or not in JavaScript,
but in React, is everything that your
functions return have to be a ReactNode.
Which is like a thing that React knows
how to renders, it's what a ReactNode is.
Yeah, just use VS code to
tell you what things are.
That's how I do it.